[#338] Add docs for running in production (#359)
airyhq/airy: docs/docs/guides/airy-core-in-test-env.md

---
title: Running the Airy Core Platform in a test environment
sidebar_label: Test
---

The goal of this document is to provide an overview of how to run the Airy Core
Platform.

> The Airy apps can run on a docker runtime engine, however we recommend deploying the Airy Core Platform inside Kubernetes. For bootstrapping the entire Airy Core Platform on a single machine, we included a [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) configuration, inside the `infrastructure` directory. All of the services run inside a single Vagrant Kubernetes box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To facilitate bootstrapping the Airy Core Platform on a single machine, we included a [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) configuration, inside the `infrastructure` director.
```

> The Vagrant box is based on Alpine Linux and contains a pre-configured Kubernetes cluster [K3OS](https://k3os.io/), to deploy and run all the Airy Core Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Vagrant box is based on Alpine Linux and contains a pre-configured Kubernetes cluster [K3OS](https://k3os.io/), to deploy and run the Airy Core Platform.
```

components.

## Getting started

To get started please refer to the [bootstrapping](../index.md#bootstrapping-the-airy-core-platform) document.

## Debug your installation

You can ssh inside the Airy Core Platform box for testing and debugging purposes with `vagrant ssh` or run commands directly with `vagrant ssh -c COMMAND`

### Status

To view the status of the Vagrant box run:

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant status
```

> The status command prints the API endpoints, example how to create an user and the public webhooks which are created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The status command prints the API endpoints, for example how to create an user and the public webhooks which are created.
```

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant ssh -c /vagrant/scripts/status.sh
```

### Inspect Kubernetes

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant ssh
kubectl get pods
```

> ### Start, stop, restart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start, stop, restart

```

You can stop, start or restart the Airy Core Platform box with the following
commands:

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant halt
vagrant up
vagrant reload
```

> ### Re-create the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Re-create the environment

```

You can delete and re-create the whole environment with the following commands:

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant destroy
vagrant up
```

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Access the API

> The API services are available by accessing the particular endpoints at http://api.airy/, from your local machine. En example on how to send request to the API is printed by running the `status` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API services are available under the domain `http://api.airy` from your local machine. You can see an example  request to the API by running the `status` command.
```

## Access the frontend UI

The frontend UI for the demo app can be accessed through http://demo.airy.

The frontend UI for the Airy chat plugin can be accessed through http://chatplugin.airy.

## Public webhooks

The public webhook URLs are generated during the bootstrap process and are displayed after the process finishes. You can find your current webhook URLs and your API local address running the `status` command.

## Connect sources

### The Facebook source

> To integrate the Facebook source, you must provide your Facebook credentials in the `airy.conf` configuration file, located in the `infrastructure` directory. An example of the configuration can be found in `airy.conf.akk`. After setting the configuration run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To integrate the Facebook source, you must provide your Facebook credentials in the `airy.conf` configuration file, located in the `infrastructure` directory. An example of the configuration can be found in `airy.conf.all`. After setting the configuration run:
```

```sh

> vagrant provision --provision-with=conf

Reviewer 2: This could result in loading the apps we could add a warning or give a way to set the APP_IMAGE_TAG env variable until we do #396

Author: I'll think of a way how to solve this now, maybe instead of using ENV, we can put the variable in the config file?

Author: For now, I'll rename the variable to `AIRY_VERSION` and will update the docs.

```
AIRY_VERSION=beta vagrant provision --provision-with=conf
```

Reviewer 2: work for me

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect sources

 You must provide your source specific configuration in a `infrastructure/airy.conf` file, An example of the configuration can be found in `airy.conf.all`. After  the configuration run:

```sh
vagrant provision --provision-with=conf
```
```

---
title: Running the Airy Core Platform in a test environment
sidebar_label: Test
---

The goal of this document is to provide an overview of how to run the Airy Core Platform on your local machine.

> To facilitate bootstrapping the Airy Core Platform on a single machine, we included a [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) configuration, inside the `infrastructure` director.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To facilitate bootstrapping the Airy Core Platform on a single machine, we included a [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) configuration, inside the `infrastructure` directory.
```

> The Vagrant box is based on Alpine Linux and contains a pre-configured Kubernetes cluster [K3OS](https://k3os.io/), to deploy and run the Airy Core Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Vagrant box is based on Alpine Linux and contains a pre-configured Kubernetes cluster [K3OS](https://k3os.io/) to deploy and run the Airy Core Platform.
```

## Debug your installation

You can ssh inside the Airy Core Platform box for testing and debugging purposes with `vagrant ssh` or run commands directly with `vagrant ssh -c COMMAND`

### Status

To view the status of the Vagrant box run:

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant status
```

The status command prints the API endpoints, for example how to create an user and the public webhooks which are created.

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant ssh -c /vagrant/scripts/status.sh
```

### Inspect Kubernetes

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant ssh
kubectl get pods
```

### Start, stop, restart

You can stop, start or restart the Airy Core Platform box with the following
commands:

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant halt
vagrant up
vagrant reload
```

### Re-create the environment

You can delete and re-create the whole environment with the following commands:

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant destroy
vagrant up
```

## Access the API

The API services are available under the domain `http://api.airy` from your local machine. You can see an example  request to the API by running the `status` command.

## Access the frontend UI

The frontend UI for the demo app can be accessed through http://demo.airy.

> The frontend UI for the Airy chat plugin can be accessed through http://chatplugin.airy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The frontend UI for the Airy chat plugin can be accessed through http://chatplugin.airy/example.html.
```

## Public webhooks

> The public webhook URLs are generated during the bootstrap process and are displayed after the process finishes. You can find your current webhook URLs and your API local address running the `status` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The public webhook URLs are generated during the bootstrap process and are displayed after the process finishes. Find your current webhook URLs and your API local address by running the `status` command.
```

> For the purpose of `complete end-to-end functionality` of the whole platform on your local machine, we have included a [Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) client, as a sidecar container in all of the `sources-SOURCE_NAME-webhook` pods. Ngrok is an open source reverse proxy, which creates a secure tunnel from a public endpoint to a local service. The Ngrok client connects to a Ngrok server which has public access to the internet and then provides a reversed proxy connectivity back to the webhook services, running inside the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to integrate with the webhook of most sources on your local machine, weincluded a [Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) client as a sidecar container in each `sources-SOURCE_NAME-webhook` pods. Ngrok is an open source reverse proxy which creates a secure tunnel from a public endpoint to a local service. The Ngrok client connects to a Ngrok server which has public access to the internet and then provides a reversed proxy connectivity back to the webhook services, running inside the Kubernetes cluster.
```

By default, the Ngrok client is configured to use the Ngrok server created by Airy and running on https://tunnel.airy.co. This configuration is specified in the `ngrok-client-config` ConfigMap. 

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: ngrok-client-config
  namespace: default
data:
  config.yml: |
    server_addr: proxy.tunnel.airy.co:4443
    trust_host_root_certs: true
```

> If you would prefer to use your own Ngrok implementation or point the Ngrok client to connect to the service provided by the Ngrok company at  `https://ngrok.io`, change the setting for `server_addr` in the ConfigMap or in this helm chart document `infrastructure/helm-chart/charts/apps/charts/airy-config/templates/sources.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to use your own Ngrok implementation or point the Ngrok client to connect to the service provided by the Ngrok company at  `https://ngrok.io`, change the setting for `server_addr` in the ConfigMap or in this helm chart document `infrastructure/helm-chart/charts/apps/charts/airy-config/templates/sources.yaml`.
```

> The bootstrap process creates a random URL, which is then provisioned inside the helm chart. To configure these URLs, you can either specify them in the `infrastructure/helm-chart/charts/apps/charts/airy-config/values.yaml` document or inside the `airy.conf` file. As it can be seen from the `airy.conf.all` config file, this can be done by setting the following parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bootstrap process creates a random URL which is then provisioned inside the Helm chart. To configure these URLs, you can specify them in the `infrastructure/helm-chart/charts/apps/charts/airy-co)fig/values.yaml` document. Alternatively  you can edit the `airy.conf` file by setting the following parameter (see `airy.conf.all` for more examples):
```

---
title: Running the Airy Core Platform in a test environment
sidebar_label: Test
---

The goal of this document is to provide an overview of how to run the Airy Core Platform on your local machine.

To facilitate bootstrapping the Airy Core Platform on a single machine, we included a [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) configuration, inside the `infrastructure` directory.

The Vagrant box is based on Alpine Linux and contains a pre-configured Kubernetes cluster [K3OS](https://k3os.io/) to deploy and run the Airy Core Platform.
components.

## Getting started

> To get started please refer to the [bootstrapping](/index.md#bootstrapping-the-airy-core-platform) document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bootstrap a test installation, refer to the [bootstrapping](/index.md#bootstrapping-the-airy-core-platform) document.
```

By default, the Ngrok client is configured to use the Ngrok server created by Airy and running on https://tunnel.airy.co. This configuration is specified in the `ngrok-client-config` ConfigMap. 

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: ngrok-client-config
  namespace: default
data:
  config.yml: |
    server_addr: proxy.tunnel.airy.co:4443
    trust_host_root_certs: true
```

If you prefer to use your own Ngrok implementation or point the Ngrok client to connect to the service provided by the Ngrok company at  `https://ngrok.io`, change the setting for `server_addr` in the ConfigMap or in this helm chart document `infrastructure/helm-chart/charts/apps/charts/airy-config/templates/sources.yaml`.

The bootstrap process creates a random URL which is then provisioned inside the Helm chart. To configure these URLs, you can specify them in the `infrastructure/helm-chart/charts/apps/charts/airy-co)fig/values.yaml` document. Alternatively  you can edit the `airy.conf` file by setting the following parameter (see `airy.conf.all` for more examples):

```
sources:
  SOURCE_NAME:
    webhookPublicUrl: https://public-url-for-SOURCE_NAME-webhook
```

> After making those configurations, run the following commands to apply the changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After preparing the configuration, run the following commands to apply the changes:
```

```sh
cd infrastructure
vagrant ssh
sudo -i
cp /vagrant/airy.conf ~/airy-core/helm-chart/charts/apps/values.yaml 
helm upgrade airy ~/airy-core/helm-chart/charts/apps/ --timeout 1000s
```

## Connect sources

> To integrate the sources into the `Airy Core Platform`, you must provide your credentials in the `airy.conf` configuration file, located in the `infrastructure` directory. An example of the configuration can be found in `airy.conf.all`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrating sources into the `Airy Core Platform` often requires specific configuration settings, refer to the source specific docs for details. You must provide the settings in `infrastructure/airy.conf` configuration file. An example of the configuration can be found in `airy.conf.all`.
```
